Setting and story
During Bethesda's E3 conference, it was revealed that the player will be the Sole Survivor of Vault 111, who emerges approximately 210 years after the Great War. Prior to this, the player is shown to have lived during the pre-War era with their spouse and child.
The setting was confirmed to take place in Boston, Massachusetts, from the trailer released on June 3, 2015. The trailer shows the Paul Revere Monument, the USS Constitution, as well as the Massachusetts State House with its unique Golden Dome. Scollay Square, Bunker Hill memorial, and Fenway Park are also visible in the trailer. Areas within Fenway Park include (from left to right) Swatters Custom Baseball Store, Diamond City Surplus, Power Noodles, and Chem-I-Care. Fenway Park is renamed Diamond City, as seen in the surplus store name, and the white diamond symbol seen on the outside of the building and on the Diamond City Surplus store. The events of Fallout 4 occur in 2287; a decade after Fallout 3, and six years after Fallout: New Vegas.
Vault 111 is in the North-West corner of the map as it was seen in the trailer. Furthermore, the Sole Survivor wearing the Vault 111 jumpsuit is carrying a laser musket, can be seen meeting Dogmeat and starting on a road leading away from the camera, a motif seen in various previous installments.
Vault 111 is also near Sanctuary Hills, the estate where the Sole Survivor is from. According to the game trailer, it seems to be the first place most players may encounter (provided they don't go the other way). The player's robot, Codsworth, still resides there. Going by the E3 reveal, one of the player-built settlement sites is in Sanctuary Hills, the player's original neighborhood before the war.
The setting will also include mountains and the out-lands of Boston's city limits.
The game will feature just over 111,000 lines of dialogue, more than all of the dialogue in Fallout 3 and The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim combined.
Gameplay
The gameplay is largely similar to that of Fallout 3 and Fallout: New Vegas, with the ability to switch from first to third person view. Additional features are a split-piece armor system, base-building, a dynamic dialogue system, in depth crafting system which implements every lootable object in the game, and much more. Enemies such as mole rats, raiders, super mutants, deathclaws, and ghouls will also return to the series.
The player character, the Sole Survivor, obtains a Pip-Boy which allows the player to access a menu with statistics, maps, data, and items. Players can also find game cartridges, which can be played on the Pip-Boy. Another returning gameplay feature is the Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System (V.A.T.S.), which plays an important part in combat. While using V.A.T.S., real-time combat is slowed down, and action is played out from varying camera angles in a computer graphics version of "bullet time". Various actions cost action points, limiting the actions of each combatant during a turn, and the player can target specific body areas for attacks to inflict specific injuries; head shots can be used for quick kills or blinding, legs can be targeted to slow enemies' movements, and opponents can be disarmed by shooting at their weapons.
A new feature to the series is the ability to build settlements and buildings. Players can select and scrap objects and structures for resources and building supplies, and use them to build their own structures ranging from fully-decoratable houses, towers, bars, labs, and more. The player can also construct more than one settlement across the Commonweatlh, and can send brahmin caravans between their towns. Towns can be powered with working electricity, using a dynamic power line system, as well as equipped water pumps and crops/gardens to keep a steady income of food and drink. Merchants and non-player characters can inhabit player towns and help keep the settlements running as a community. Players can build various defenses around their settlements, such as turrets, guard towers, and traps, to defend the settlements, as they can be raided and attacked.
Another new feature to Fallout that was confirmed by Bethesda Studios on Twitter[5] is that there is no level cap, allowing players to experience a little more freedom when it comes to exploring and combat. Another confirmed feature that allows even more explorational freedom is that, also confirmed by Bethesda's Twitter, is that even if the game 'ends' you may continue playing, a feature returning from Broken Steel, which allows players to experience the aftermath of their decisions. In addition, a new weapon system will allow a wide variety of customization.
Development
Initially, in 2004, Bethesda Softworks licensed from Interplay Entertainment the rights to create and publish three Fallout games (Fallout 3, Fallout: New Vegas and Fallout 4). Later, in 2007, Bethesda purchased the entire franchise, and Interplay licensed back from Bethesda the rights to a Fallout MMORPG. The legal dispute is now over, with Bethesda Softworks and its in-house development studio retaining the rights to all of the Fallout franchise, including an MMO.
In 2008, Bethesda's Pete Hines said: "The whole reason we went out and acquired the license and that we now own Fallout is that we clearly intended to make more than one." He also added: "This is not something we're going to do once and then go away and never do it again. When that will be or how long that will be God only knows, but we acquired it specifically because we wanted to own it and develop it and work on it like we do with The Elder Scrolls."[6]
Development began right after Fallout 3 's release, in 2009. The game had minor development due to Skyrim being developed at the same time. After Skyrim was released in 2011, Fallout 4 became the primary project for Bethesda.
Pip-Boy Edition
The products included in theFallout 4 Pip-Boy Edition.
The Pip-Boy edition of Fallout 4 features: a wearable Pip-Boy that can, according to a Forbes article, hold the iPhone 6, iPhone 5/5s, iPhone 4/4s, Samsung Galaxy S4, the Samsung Galaxy S5 and many other smartphones using foam inserts. a Pip-Boy pocket guide, a Vault-Tec perk poster, a RobCo Industries stand (for your Pip-Boy), a capsule case, and the game in a collectible metal case.
Fallout 4 Nuke Pack
The products included in theFallout 4 Nuke Pack.
The Fallout 4 Nuke Pack features: a Fallout 4 lunchbox, a 37x10" Fallout 4 Print, a Vault Boy mini bobble head, and the game in a collectible metal case. The Nuke Pack is sold exclusively in Australia and New Zealand, distributed by EB Games.
Fallout 4 Mighty Bundle
The products included in the Fallout 4 Mighty Bundle.
The Fallout 4 Mighty Bundle features: an 80 page hardcover Fallout 4 Franchise Book "...detailing in words and hi-res imagery the history of Fallout over the years", a Fallout Vault Boy Pop! Vinyl figure, and a copy of the game.
Mod support
Fallout 4 is the first Fallout game to have native mod support for consoles. During the E3 2015, at the Xbox Conference, Todd Howard went on stage to tell the audience that Xbox One will offer mod support. Sony's PlayStation 4 will support mods sometime in the future.
Downloadable content
Bethesda has confirmed  there is DLC coming starting early 2016, as well as smaller updates along the same lines as Skyrim has seen. Bethesda will also be selling a Season Pass for all add-ons, at a price of $30 USD.

Fallout 4's launch was a huge success. Bethesda announced today that the game shipped 12 million copies worldwide for launch day alone, "representing sales in excess of $750 million." In addition, the game is generating "record sales" at brick and mortar stores and across Xbox Live, PlayStation Network, andPC.
Bethesda did not say how many of those 12 million copies shipped to retailers were actually sold through to consumers. The $750 million number likely represents the total possible revenue, if indeed all 12 million were actually sold. We've contacted Bethesda in an attempt to learn more about Fallout 4's performance.
"Major retailers have informed Bethesda of the tremendous consumer interest in Fallout 4 , with some noting it was the most pre-ordered game this year," Bethesda added, noting that the Pip-Boy Edition became the fastest-selling collector's edition for any game in history "at leading retailers."

"Following the release, Bethesda was advised that launch day sales at some of the leading retail chains were the largest of any game released this year," the company explained. "Bethesda is now shipping more Fallout 4 units to retailers to meet ongoing market demand."
By comparison, the last game from Bethesda Game Studios,--2011's The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim--shipped 7 million copies in 48 hours to retailers and sold through 3.5 million to consumersduring that period. As of January 2014, the game had sold through to consumers 20 million copies worldwide.
On Steam alone, Fallout 4 was the top-played game at launch, at one time reaching over 470,000 concurrent players. This blasted past a previous record held by Grand Theft Auto V. In addition, Bethesda claims the Fallout Pip-Boy app was the "number one game" on the iTunes App Store.
Finally, Bethesda said Fallout 4 set a new record to become the most-viewed game launch for any new game released so far this year.
Fallout 4 launched on November 10 for Xbox One, PS4, and PC. For more, check out GameSpot's review and what other critics are saying. In addition, Bethesda has teased the game's upcoming DLC and players have discovered an infinite money exploit.
The color
Of all the ways Fallout 4 outshines earlier entires in the series, the way it uses color is perhaps the most apparent. The game is a vast improvement over its predecessors in one simple way: It's loads more vibrant. In 2008's Fallout 3, nearly everything in the post-nuclear apocalyptic Washington D.C. was a sickly shade of green, a deliberate choice by the developers at Bethesda Softworks to sell an omnipresent feeling of sickness and decay (it still persists in certain places here). B-team developer Obsidian Entertainment's Fallout: New Vegas introduced a bit of chroma to its irradiated Las Vegas landscape in 2010, but it was still primarily a brown game. Bethesda's triumphant return to the Wastes is what shakes the series' palette up the most. As you'll see in the gallery below, the use of vibrant colors and a tightly defined palette serves a couple of purposes here: It differentiates one room or Boston-area landmark from the next and keeps everything in Fallout 4 looking visually fresh.
Fallout 4 is an open world action role-playing video game developed by Bethesda Game Studios and published by Bethesda  Softworks. The game is the fifth major installment in the Fallout series, and was released worldwide on November 10, 2015 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.
200 years after a nuclear war, Fallout 4 is set in a post-apocalyptic Boston, in which the player character emerges from an underground bunker known as a Vault. Gameplay is similar to Fallout 3. Completing quests and acquiring experience levels up the character, allowing for new abilities. With an optional first- or third-person view, players can explore Fallout 4 's open world setting at will, allowing nonlinear gameplay. Additional party members can accompany the player, who are able to assist them in battles. Players have the ability to construct and deconstruct buildings and items, and use them to build a settlement, which can attract and be inhabited by non-playable characters.
Fallout 4 was rumored several times prior to the game's announcement. The game was announced on June 3, 2015, and the first gameplay footage of the game was shown at Bethesda's own conference at the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2015. The game also features full voice acting for the protagonist, the first in the series.
Fallout 4's gameplay is similar to that of Fallout 3 and Fallout: New Vegas, the previous two main entries in the series. Returning features include a camera that can switch from first person to third person view and the ability to roam anywhere on the map. Fallout 4 is supposed to feature more appealing gameplay, a layered armor system, base-building, a dynamic dialogue system featuring 111,000 lines of dialogue, an in-depth crafting system which implements every lootable object in the game, and much more. Enemies such as mole rats, raiders, super-mutants, deathclaws, and feral ghouls return in Fallout 4, along with the companion Dogmeat, who is incapable of dying.
Players have the ability to roam anywhere on the map, or leave a conversation at any time. They have the ability to customize weapons; the game includes over 50 base guns, which can be crafted with a variety of modifications, such as barrel types and laser focus, with over 700 modifications available. Power Armor has been redesigned to be more like a vehicle than an equipable suit of armor, and can also be modified, adding items such as a jetpack or selecting separate types of armor for each part of the suit. A new feature to the series is the ability to craft and deconstruct settlements and buildings. Players can select some in-game objects and structures, and use them to freely build their own structures. In addition, the towns can be powered with working electricity, using a dynamic power line system. Merchants and non-player characters can inhabit players' towns, for which players must provide sustenance by growing food in makeshift patches and building water spouts. Players can build various defenses around their settlements, such as turrets and traps, to defend against random attacks.

When using V.A.T.S. in combat, real-time action is slowed down, and players can see the probability of hitting each body part of the enemies through percentage ratio.
The Pip-Boy, a computerized wristwatch, allows the player to access a menu with statistics, maps, data, and items. Players can find game cartridges, which can be played on the Pip-Boy. Another returning gameplay feature is the Vault-Tec Assisted Targeting System (V.A.T.S.), which plays an important part in combat. While using V.A.T.S., real-time combat is slowed down, and action is played out from varying camera angles in a computer graphics version of "bullet time". Various actions cost action points, limiting the actions of each combatant during a period of time, and the player can target specific body areas for attacks to inflict specific injuries; head shots can be used for quick kills or blinding, legs can be targeted to slow enemies' movements, and opponents can be disarmed by shooting at their weapons. Unlike in previous games, in which the player had a random chance to inflict a critical hit, they can now be done at will with a button press. However, the option requires a recharge afterwards.
At the beginning of the game, players are given points to spend on a character progression system called SPECIAL. The system represents seven statistics, namely strength, perception, endurance, charisma, intelligence, agility and luck. When players gain enough experience points to gain a new level, they unlock a new ability. When players allocate more points to a stat, more abilities can be unlocked. These perks can also be upgraded to improve the protagonist's efficiency and to further unlock new abilities. There are about 275 perks available for players to unlock. In the game, players can recruit companions, who stay and accompany players and provide assists. Players can only take one companion at a time. There are 12 recruitable companions, some of whom can be romanced by the player. There is no level cap and the game does not end once the main story is complete.
